# Data-Mining-Project-1-ITCS3162
This is my repository for my first Data Mining course project where I look at the relationship between sleep quality and duration, amongst other factors, and perceived academic performance.

Sleep is one of the most important factors in every person's life, and it is especially important in lives of college students, as they are stretched thin between classes, jobs, and their responsibilities. However, in favor of those three things, and many other events, sleep gets left behind and forgotten about, but is that more damaging than putting tasks on the backburner? Should sleep become more important to help academic success, along with other areas of college students' lives? Does a lack of sleep or a lack of quality sleep  lead to more class absences, less focus in lectures, and consequently, a worse performance in the classroom? This project will aim to answer these questions and help change the perspective on sleep for college students. 

The dataset used for this project is called "Student Insomnia and Educational Outcomes Dataset" and it is from Mendeley Data, a free cloud-based repository with easily accessible datasets on many topics. This dataset includes survey data from 985 respondents and includes questions like "how many hours of sleep do you get in a night", "how often do you wake up in the middle of the night", "how often do you feel fatigued during the day, affecting your ability to study or attend classes", and "how would you rate your overall academic performance (GPA or grades) in the past semester". These questions, in addition to many others, will help paint a picture on how much students should prioritize quality sleep to find the most success they can in college. 
